docs next (#610)
nitrictech/docs: src/pages/index.mdx

<HomeHeader
  title="Nitric Documentation"
  description="Build cloud backends that run anywhere, fast."
/>

> Nitric is a cloud framework with common resources like APIs, webhooks, databases, queues, topics, buckets, and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nitric is a cloud framework with common resources like APIs, websockets, databases, queues, topics, buckets, and more.
```

> However, Nitric is unique - it doesn't just deploy the resources, it helps you interact with them. It also makes them plugable, so you can swap services or even whole clouds without changing your code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, Nitric is unique - it doesn't just deploy the resources, it helps you interact with them. It also makes them pluggable, so you can swap services or even whole clouds without changing your code.
```

It's what's missing between applications and infrastructure automation.

Oh, and it supports basically any language, like JavaScript, TypeScript, Python, Go, you name it.

## Services

> Services are the heart of nitric apps, they're the entrypoints to your code. They can serve as APIs, webhooks, schedule handlers, subscribers and a lot more. You create services by telling Nitric where to look for your code and how to run it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Services are the heart of Nitric apps, they're the entrypoints to your code. They can serve as APIs, websockets, schedule handlers, subscribers and a lot more. You create services by telling Nitric where to look for your code and how to run it.
```

```yaml {{ label:"nitric.yaml" }}
name: example
services:
    - match: services/*.ts
      start: npm run dev:services $SERVICE_PATH
```

You might have one service that handles everything, or a service for each route. It's up to you.

## Resources

Resources are the building blocks of your apps. They're the databases, queues, buckets, etc. that your services interact with. If you want a resource, you just ask for it.

<CodeGroup>

```javascript {{ label:"services/example.js" }}
import { bucket } from '@nitric/sdk'

const profiles = bucket('profiles').allow('read', 'write', 'delete')
```

```python {{ label:"services/example.py" }}
from nitric.resources import bucket
from nitric.application import Nitric

profiles = bucket('profiles').allow('read', 'write', 'delete')

Nitric.run()
```

```go {{ label:"services/example/main.go" }}
import (
	"fmt"

	"github.com/nitrictech/go-sdk/nitric"
)

func main() {
	profiles, _ := nitric.NewBucket("profiles").Allow(nitric.BucketRead, nitric.BucketWrite, nitric.BucketDelete)

	if err := nitric.Run(); err != nil {
		fmt.Println(err)
	}
}
```

```dart {{ label:"services/example.dart" }}
import 'package:nitric_sdk/nitric.dart';

> final profiles = Nitric.bucket("profiles").allow([
>   BucketPermission.read,
>   BucketPermission.write,
>   BucketPermission.delete,
> ]);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
void main() {
  final profiles = Nitric.bucket("profiles").allow([
    BucketPermission.read,
    BucketPermission.write,
    BucketPermission.delete,
  ]);
}
```

Reviewer: Previous examples of Dart don't show the main method, just suggesting it's added as Go shows their main method.

```

</CodeGroup>

Nitric collects everything your services request. When you deploy, the deployment plugin you choose creates the resources and services, then links it all together.

<Note>
  That probably sounds like magic, but it's more like a compiler for Infrastructure-as-Code - you can read about it in the [Concepts](/docs/concepts) section.
</Note>

## Providers

Nitric is designed to be independent of any platform, so you can run your apps anywhere. You can deploy to AWS, Azure, GCP, or even your own Kubernetes cluster. You can even deploy to multiple clouds at once.

> Seriously, is there really a difference between a bucket on AWS and a bucket on Azure? We doesn't think so. So why is the code different?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Seriously, is there really a difference between a bucket on AWS and a bucket on Azure? We don't think so. So why should the code be different?
```

<HomeHeader
  title="Nitric Documentation"
  description="Build cloud backends that run anywhere, fast."
/>

---

Nitric is a cloud framework with common resources like APIs, websockets, databases, queues, topics, buckets, and more.

However, Nitric is unique - it doesn't just deploy the resources, it helps you interact with them. It also makes them pluggable, so you can swap services or even whole clouds without changing your code.

It's what's missing between applications and infrastructure automation.

Oh, and it supports basically any language, like JavaScript, TypeScript, Python, Go, you name it.

<div className="">
<Libraries minimal />
</div>

---

## Services

Services are the heart of Nitric apps, they're the entrypoints to your code. They can serve as APIs, websockets, schedule handlers, subscribers and a lot more. You create services by telling Nitric where to look for your code and how to run it.

```yaml {{ label:"nitric.yaml" }}
name: example
services:
    - match: services/*.ts
      start: npm run dev:services $SERVICE_PATH
```

You might have one service that handles everything, or a service for each route. It's up to you.

---

## Resources

> Resources are the building blocks of your apps. They're the databases, queues, buckets, etc. that your services interact with. If you want a resource, you just ask for it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Resources are the building blocks of your apps. They're the databases, queues, buckets, etc. that your services interact with. If you want a resource, you just import it from the Nitric SDK.
```

<CodeGroup>

```javascript {{ label:"services/example.js" }}
import { bucket } from '@nitric/sdk'

const profiles = bucket('profiles').allow('read', 'write', 'delete')
```

```python {{ label:"services/example.py" }}
from nitric.resources import bucket
from nitric.application import Nitric

profiles = bucket('profiles').allow('read', 'write', 'delete')

Nitric.run()
```

```go {{ label:"services/example/main.go" }}
import (
	"fmt"

	"github.com/nitrictech/go-sdk/nitric"
)

func main() {
	profiles, _ := nitric.NewBucket("profiles").Allow(nitric.BucketRead, nitric.BucketWrite, nitric.BucketDelete)

	if err := nitric.Run(); err != nil {
		fmt.Println(err)
	}
}
```

```dart {{ label:"services/example.dart" }}
import 'package:nitric_sdk/nitric.dart';

void main() {
  final profiles = Nitric.bucket("profiles").allow([
    BucketPermission.read,
    BucketPermission.write,
    BucketPermission.delete,
  ]);
}
```

</CodeGroup>

> Nitric collects everything your services request. When you deploy, the deployment plugin you choose creates the resources and services, then links it all together.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nitric collects all the details about your services that are required to configure a runtime environment. When you deploy, the deployment plugin you choose creates the resources and services, then links it all together.
```

<Note>
  That probably sounds like magic, but it's more like a compiler for Infrastructure-as-Code - you can read about it in the [Concepts](/docs/concepts) section.
</Note>

---

## Providers

Nitric is designed to be independent of any platform, so you can run your apps anywhere. You can deploy to AWS, Azure, GCP, or even your own Kubernetes cluster. You can even deploy to multiple clouds at once.

Seriously, is there really a difference between a bucket on AWS and a bucket on Azure? We don't think so. So why should the code be different?

> Nitric abstracts away the differences, so you can focus on your app. The part that makes that possible is a plugin, we call a **Provider**.

Reviewer 2: I am not sure how to write it, but since we say there is no difference on the sentence above, perhaps this should read that Nitric abstracts away the cloud specific interface so that you get the same functionality?

├── nitric.yaml
├── services/
│   └── orders.ts
│   └── users.ts
└── package.json
```

```plaintext {{ title:"Python" }}
example/
├── nitric.yaml
├── services/
│   └── orders.py
│   └── users.py
└── Pipfile
```

```plaintext {{ title:"Go" }}
example/
├── nitric.yaml
├── services/
│   ├── orders/
│   │   └── main.go
│   └── users/
│       └── main.go
├── dockerfile
└── go.mod
```

```plaintext {{ title:"Dart" }}
example/
├── nitric.yaml
├── services/
│   └── orders.dart
│   └── users.dart
└── pubspec.yaml
```

</CodeGroup>

---

## CLI

Nitric has a CLI to help you create, manage, run and deploy your projects. We recommend installing it with a package manager:

<InstallNitric>

```bash {{ title: 'macOS' }}
brew install nitrictech/tap/nitric
```

```bash {{ title: 'Windows' }}
scoop bucket add nitric https://github.com/nitrictech/scoop-bucket.git
scoop install nitric
```

```bash {{ title: 'Linux' }}
curl -L "https://nitric.io/install?version=latest" | bash
```

</InstallNitric>

### New

You can create a new project from a template with the `new` command.

```bash
nitric new
```

### Start

You can run your project locally with the `start` command.

```bash
nitric start
```

<Note>

>   Start also emulates the resources you requested, so you can test your app locally. And provides a Dashboard UI to interact with the resources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Start also emulates the resources you requested, so you can test your app locally. It also launches a convenient  Dashboard UI so that you can visualize your application and interact with the resources.
```

`nitric start` hosts entrypoints like APIs, websockets, and schedules, as well as resources like databases, topics, queues, key/value stores and buckets.

It also provides a Dashboard to interact with your resources, so you can trigger schedules without waiting, or topics without a publisher, or upload test files to a bucket. It even produces a real-time architecture diagram of your services and resources.

<img
  src="/docs/images/docs/dashboard-architecture.png"
  style={{ maxWidth: 800, width: '100%' }}
  alt="screen shot of the local development dashboard"
/>

---

## Extension & Escape Hatches

The services of cloud providers are vast, we can't cover everything and we shouldn't. Many services are unique enough that abstraction would be a disservice. Nitric aims to make common "table stakes" services easy to use, but we never want to limit you.

### Runtime

If you need to access a service in a way Nitric doesn't support, you can always use the provider's SDK directly. Code like this will always work:

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

<Note>
  When using a service without a Nitric provider, you'll need to provision and configure it with an IaC tool or using the cloud console.
</Note>

```

<CodeGroup>

```javascript
import { S3Client } from '@aws-sdk/client-s3'

const s3 = new S3Client({ region: 'us-east-1' })

const { Contents } = await s3.listObjectsV2({ Bucket: 'my-bucket' })
```

```python
from boto3 import client

s3 = client('s3', region_name='us-east-1')

response = s3.list_objects_v2(Bucket='my-bucket')
```

```go
import (
  "context"

  "github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go-v2/config"
  "github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go-v2/service/s3"
)

cfg, _ := config.LoadDefaultConfig(context.TODO())
client := s3.NewFromConfig(cfg)

output, _ := client.ListObjectsV2(context.TODO(), &s3.ListObjectsV2Input{
  Bucket: aws.String("my-bucket"),
})
```

```dart
import 'package:aws_s3/aws_s3.dart';

final s3 = S3(region: 'us-east-1');

final response = await s3.listObjectsV2(Bucket: 'my-bucket');

print(response.contents);
```

</CodeGroup>

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Note>
  When using a service without a Nitric provider, you'll need to provision and configure it with an IaC tool or using the cloud console.
</Note>
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

<Note>
  When using a service without a Nitric provider, you'll need to provision and configure it with an IaC tool or using the cloud console.
</Note>

```
